Voice docs updates (#35885)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/voice_control/index.markdown

---
title: Talking with Home Assistant - get your system up & running
related:
  - docs: /voice_control/android
    title: Assist on Android
  - docs: /voice_control/apple
    title: Assist on Apple
  - docs: /voice_control/thirteen-usd-voice-remote/
    title: Build a 13$ voice remote using an ESPHome device
  - docs: /voice_control/best_practices/
    title: Best practices with Assist
  - url: https://www.nabucasa.com/config/
    title: Home Assistant Cloud
---

This section will help you set up Assist, which is Home Assistant voice assistant. 

Assist allows you to control Home Assistant using natural language. It is built on top of an open voice foundation and powered by the knowledge provided by our community.

As for the rest of Home Assistant core functionalities, Assist can be personalized and extended to fit your needs.
- It can work locally or leverage the greatest LLMs of the moment.
- It can work on your phone or tablet or other custom voice devices.

<lite-youtube videoid="XF53wUbeLxA" videotitle="Voice at Home Assistant"></lite-youtube>

> Although adding voice to your smart home configuration is exciting, it will require you check your existing setup of Home Assistant, specially if you made a lot of customization. But we have prepared a guide of steps and best practices to help you out and our [Troubleshooting](/voice_source/troubleshooting/) guides.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although adding voice to your smart home configuration is exciting, it will require you to check your existing setup of Home Assistant, especially if you made a lot of customization. But we have prepared a guide of steps and best practices to help you out, as well as our [Troubleshooting](/voice_source/troubleshooting/) guides.
```
